In this demo, I am going to show you how Namespace Quotas work.
In my "Kubernetes-course", I have a folder called a resource called, "resourcequotas",
and then I have the file "resourcequota.yml",
and in this file I define a new namespace.
I have an object of namespace with "kind: Namespace",
with the name, "Namespace".
This will create a new namespace, and in this new namespace, I am going to define resource quotass.
I'm going to specify hard limits on CPU and memory, and request limits on CPM and memory.
I'm also going to apply limits on objects. So let me create these objects.
And now, what I'm going to do is I am going to create a deployment. I am going to create "hello" deployment, but
I'm not going to specify any quotas, just to see what's going to happen.
You see, the same deployment that I used earlier. So, I am going to create this one.
This is created.
Let's have a look at our deployments.
I'm also going to add namespace "myspace".
We have "helloworld-deployment", desired 3 pods, but no pods running.
Let's debug this, let's get the replication set, also of "namespace: myspace".
And let's described this replication set.
And it actually says, "Failed to create these pods because deployment is forbidden: failed quota: compute quota:"
"must specify limits.cpu, limits.memory, requests.cpu, requests.memory".
So, when we launch our pod, we have to supply those things.
So, I'm just going to delete our deploy, "helloworld-deployment"
in "--namespace=myspace" and let me now show you another YAML file with quotas.
Here, I have a deployment that says, "I want to have 200 millicpu as limit 400 millicpu,
and I want at least 0.5 Gi of memory, limit is 1 Gi. Let me create this one.
So, again launching in the namespace, "myspace".
Let me get the pods.
And this is interesting,
I asked for tree replicas only got two, so my pods have been created but only two pods.
And if you take a look at the resources you will see why. It can only schedule two out of three.
So, we now have a current of two,
but these are two out of three.
So, let me describe this replica sets.
And it says, the first two were launched, okay.
But, the third one says, "Exceeded quota".
It was required to have a limit of 1Gi memory, request of 0.5 Gi.
So, let's have a look at our quota usage in the namespace, "myspace", and let's describe the compute quota.
Then we see that our limits.memory and our request.memory are already in use.
That's why we cannot schedule triples, but only two of them. Let's delete this deployment again.
And, I already told you in the theory that we can have defaults.
So, let's say that I want not to specify limits during my pod creation, then I can use the defaults.
So, we can have limits here.
Let's create this "resourcequotas/defaults.yml" and let's describe these limits.
Let's describe these limits called just "limits".
So, here this default limit is the actual limit for the container.
Then we have right here, these limits.
This is the request capacity that you put a default for, and this is the limit that you put a default for.
And these are of "type: container". You can also choose to have limits on the pod instead of containers that is also possible.
So, then we can still create this deployment, "helloworld" with no quotas and what's going to happen now, is that it's going to use the defaults.
If you have a look at the pods, in namespace, "myspace" then we see that we have three pods created now,
because it is using the lower default limits and now the three pods are fitting within this limit and are being scheduled on the Kubernetes cluster.
So, these default is very recommended.
Then you don't have to specify your limits for every single pod.
That is it for this demo about limits.